# Pie documentation

Full documentation of the `Pie` command interface line (CLI). Go to [1.3 change log](https://github.com/jaedsonpys/pie/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#130) to see the changes this version.

> Pie Hooks are available starting with this release! See in [Pie Hooks Tutorial](https://github.com/jaedsonpys/pie/tree/master/docs/hooks.md).

## Configuring author informations

You can globally configure the author information of the repositories, so when you create a new repository, you don't need to inform the author's name or email. To configure the author globally, use the `pie config` command with the `--author` and `--author-email` flags, passing your **name and e-mail address**. See a example:

```
pie config --author 'Jaedson Silva' --author-email 'email@mail.com'
```

## Creating a repository

If you configured author information globally, just use the `pie init` command to start an empty repository. Otherwise, use the `pie init` command together with the `--author` and `--author-email` flags, passing your **name and e-mail address** to set author information. See a example:

```
pie init --author 'Jaedson Silva' --author-email 'email@mail.com'
```

After that, your repository has been created.

## Checking files status

The `pie status` command will display untracked files, uncommitted files, and files that have been added **but not yet committed** (new):

```
pie status
```

## Adding Files

Adding a file means tracking, i.e. Pie will recognize this file and organize its commits. To add a file, use the `pie add` command and pass the files as argument:

```
pie add README.md LICENSE
```

You can also use the `-A` flag to select all **non-skipped files** to be added:

```
pie add -A
```

## Commit files

Use the `pie commit` command passing as argument the files to commit. You also need to pass a message to the `-m` flag, specifying the changes you commit:

```
pie commit README.md -m 'adding README.md'
```

The same works for committing multiple files:

```
pie commit setup.py setup.cfg -m 'creating project setup'
```

You can also use the `-a` flag to select all **tracked files that have changed** to be committed:

```
pie commit -a -m 'new commit!'
```

If you want to shorten it even more (a good practice), use the `-am` flag, which is a combination of the `-a` and `-m` flags, using it, you just need to pass the commit message:

```
pie commit -am 'new commit!'
```

## View the commits log

Use the `pie log` command to see **all commits** performed, from the first to the last. The log contains information such as author, date, commit hash and the message.

```
pie log
```

## View file difference

You can view the difference between files using the `pie diff` command. This command will display the difference between all alterdis files:

```
pie diff
```